A simple webapp example using NodeJS's Express.

Loosely following instructions at: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/11/15/node-express-typescript

Initialized with 
```
npm init
```

All the defaults were used when prompted to create the package.json

Install express with 
```
npm install express
```

Created `src/index.js` and updated `package.json`: changed `main` property and added a `start` script.

# Set up TypeScript

Run to install TypeScript compiler:
```
npm install --save-dev typescript  
```

Added `tsconfig.json` file. This can be autogenerated with:
```
npx tsc --init
```
Some settings made to match those listed here: https://developer.okta.com/blog/2018/11/15/node-express-typescript#set-up-your-nodejs-project-to-use-typescript

The TypeScript compiler will compile files in the `src` folder and place the results in the `dist` folder.

Added Typescript linting:
```
npm install --save-dev tslint
```

Added `tslint.json`. This can be autogenerated with:
```
npx tslint --init
```
Some settings are changed from the default.

Updated `package.json` to point main to the new `dist` folder, and with a few new scripts for prebuild, build, and prestart.

Changed `index.js` extension from `.js` to `.ts`.

Finally, run with:

```
npm run start
```

Note: You can run TSLint and the TypeScript compiler without starting the Node.js server using `npm run build`.

# TypeScript errors

Updated the `index.ts` to address some linter/compiler errors.

Update your project with some TypeScript declaration files so that TypeScript can use the type declarations for Node.js and Express.
```
npm install --save-dev @types/node @types/express
```

# Build a Better User Interface with Materialize and EJS

Adding Materialize and EJS.
Install EJS with:
```
npm install ejs
```

Add new folder in `src` called `views`, and a file called `index.ejs`.

Updated `index.ts` with code to use EJS as the view engine and render the index template for the home page.

Install more modules and TypeScript declarations needed to copy other types of files from src to dist:
```
npm install --save-dev ts-node shelljs fs-extra nodemon rimraf npm-run-all
npm install --save-dev @types/fs-extra @types/shelljs
```

Added a folder called `tools` and a new script called `copyAssets.ts`

## Update npm scripts

Update the scripts in `package.json`.

Finally, run with:

```
npm run dev
```


# Configuration Settings with Node.js

Instead of environment variables, use dotenv.

```
npm install dotenv
npm install --save-dev @types/dotenv
```

Create a `.env` file.

# Adding Authentication with Auth0

Auth0.com has a great free tier.

Create an Application for a "Regular Web Application", "Node.js (Express)", and "Integrate Now".

In the `Configure Auth0` section, simply update the port from 3000 to 8080 for configuring Auth0:
Allowed Callback URL should include http://localhost:8080/callback and use the default Allowed Logout URLs of http://localhost:8080.

Install express-openid-connect.
```
npm install express express-openid-connect --save
```
It seems TypeScript support for express-openid-connect is limited.

In the `Integrate the SDK` section, note the relevant information but do not copy the code.

A similar but nonidentical basic setup for integration is added in:
1. the new `src/middleware/sessionAuth.ts` file, 
2. the new lines in `src/index.ts`,
3. the new settings in `.env` using the relevant information.

Test the logging in process by going to the `localhost:8080/login` route. You should be redirected to Auth0's login box. After logging in, you should be redirected back to the homepage. 

You can log out by going to `localhost:8080/logout`, which also redirects back to the home page.

Check out both the `testauth` route and the `profile` route. The profile route will require you to login before accessing. The `testauth` will simply report on your logged in/out status.

Read more about usage of the `express-openid-connect` library here: https://github.com/auth0/express-openid-connect/blob/master/EXAMPLES.md#2-require-authentication-for-specific-routes

Note that to use Social Identity Providers (Facebook, Google, etc) in production, you will eventually need to register the app with the relevant Identity Provider to get a Client ID/Secret for the provider. Auth0 for now provides its own developer keys for convenience in development/testing.

## Refactor routes

A new view `stuff.ejs` is added.

New `src\routes\index.ts` moves all the routing code from `src/index.ts` into a separate place; a new auth-protected route for the `stuff` view is added. 

# Add Nav Menu w/ user profile info

The `express-openid-connect` middleware automatically attaches  an `oidc` context object to every request. This includes a `user` object with information and `isAuthenticated()`. 

These were previously demonstrated by the `testauth` and `profile` routes. 

Now, we add a nav bar that includes user-specific information if you're logged in. 

Changes are made to `src/routes/index.ts` that provide at render time a "context" object to the view engine, which the views can access. 

The new nav bar is in a file called `nav.ejs`, in a new folder called `partials` in `views`. Notice the use of the embedded JS to incorporate the data into the HTML and/or control the HTML used.

Both `index.ejs` and `stuff.ejs` have a new line that includes the `nav` partial.

# Adding a mysql database
Install the `mysql` library.
```
npm install mysql 
npm install --save-dev @types/mysql
```

Set up a new MySQL schema in a local/remote database.

Put the information in the `.env` file.

The model/forward engineer code is in the `db_setup` folder.

A convenient "reset" script is is in `tools/reset_table.sql`. To run it, the `mysql` module is invoked in `tools/initdb.ts`, a stand-alone script.
The package.json is updated to run the script on `npm run initdb`

# Using the database: an API
We set up an easy-to-use module for database queries in `src.db/db.ts`, which sets up a connection pool and exports both a standard query method in callback style (queryCallback) and a promisified query method (queryPromise).

The promisifying is done with the util module:
```
npm install util
npm install --save-dev @types/util.promisify
```

We can use these to make simple queries. The new Express router in the `src/routes/api.ts` adds two simple api GET endpoints demonstrating how both of these query methods work. 

More api POST and DELETE endpoints are also implemented. 

The router is added to handle all "api/" routes in `src/routes/index.ts`, with authorization required.
# Testing the API endpoints:

Several layers of middleware are added in `src/index.ts` to parse request bodies sent by forms. Also, a HTTP request/response logging middleware called Morgan is added (but only for development):
```
npm install morgan 
npm install --save-dev @types/morgan
```

The new view `src/views/apiTester.ejs` allows for testing each of the API endpoints from the browser. Note the use of fetch statements to perform AJAX calls, hitting the endpoints without redirecting to a new page.

The first naive implementation of the `apiTester` just uses the default form submit, so the `add` and `update` endpoints do, in fact, cause page redirection.

# Using fetch for forms

The second implementation of `apiTester` overrides the default form submit behavior, using fetch instead. 

It uses the helper functions in `public/js/formFetch.js`, which are taken and lightly altered from this blog post: //https://simonplend.com/how-to-use-fetch-to-post-form-data-as-json-to-your-api/
        
## Serving static files

To serve static files in the public folder, the `src/index.ts` adds a new line of middleware.

`tools/copyAssets.ts` and the nodemon scripts in `package.json` were also updated to copy over and track files in the `public` folder. (The tracking only added js files for now)


# Implemented "stuff" page

The `views/stuff.ejs` page is implemented to both use SSR for its initial layout (using EJS to inject) and AJAX calls with `fetch` and vanilla JS DOM manipulation for actions going forward, including adding, deleting, and searching for stuff.

Note that the `routes/index.ts` page utilizes a call to the database to get data for the initial SSR rendering.

# Using Auth0 Roles

Used the Auth0 "Authorization Extension"

https://auth0.com/docs/customize/extensions/authorization-extension/use-rules-with-the-authorization-extension#add-custom-claims-to-the-issued-token

After the generated rule from the configuration of the Authorization Extension, needed to add the following rule to attach the permissions/roles to the idToken

```
function (user, context, callback) {
  var namespace = 'http://localhost:8080/claims/';

  // Add the namespaced tokens. Remove any which is not necessary for your scenario
  context.idToken[namespace + "permissions"] = user.permissions;
  context.idToken[namespace + "roles"] = user.roles;
  
  callback(null, user, context);
}

```

The docs mentioned to change the `scope` in the config for `express-open-id`'s auth object to include "permissions" and "roles", but it seems to not be necessary...


```
npm install http-errors
npm install --save-dev @types/http-errors
```
